docs/installation.md, before:

# Installation
proophessor-do offers you three options to install the demo application. We support Vagrant, Docker and have manual 
instructions.

At first, please clone this repository by running `git clone https://github.com/prooph/proophessor-do.git` or download 
it manually from GitHub. If you use a own local web server, put this project to the document root of the local web 
server. Now navigate to the proophessor-do directory.

## Using Docker
First ensure [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/ubuntulinux/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) are installed. It's recommended to use the latest version of Docker and 
Docker Compose. Now install the dependencies and start the containers. Docker will now download all dependencies and 
starts the containers. This may take a while ...

```bash
$ docker run --rm -it --volume $(pwd):/app composer/composer:master install --no-dev -o --prefer-dist --ignore-platform-reqs
$ docker-compose up -d
```

Call the MySQL setup script with:

```bash
$ docker-compose run --rm php sh bin/setup_mysql.sh
```

Now open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/).

## Using Vagrant
Please install the following software if not already installed:

* [Vagrant >= 1.7.3](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
* [Virtualbox >= 5.0](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
* [Vagrant docker-compose plugin](https://github.com/leighmcculloch/vagrant-docker-compose) (`vagrant plugin install vagrant-docker-compose`)

```bash
$: vagrant up
```

All dependencies will be downloaded. This may take a while ...

Now open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/).

## Do it manually

`git clone https://github.com/prooph/proophessor-do.git` into the document root of a local web server.

### Step 2 - Install event store adapter

prooph offers two database adapters for `prooph/event-store` (at the moment).
Pick the one you want to play with and install it via composer.

#### Doctrine DBAL Adapter

`composer require prooph/event-store-doctrine-adapter`

#### MongoDB Adapter

`composer require prooph/event-store-mongodb-adapter`

### Step 3 - Configure Database

Before you can start you have to configure your database connection.
As this is an example application for a CQRS-driven application we are using two different persistence layers.
One is responsible for persisting the **write model**. This task is taken by prooph/event-store.
And the other one is responsible for persisting the **read model** aka **projections**.

We've prepared a template for you. Just rename the
[config/autoload/dbal_connection.local.php.dist](../config/autoload/dbal_connection.local.php.dist) to `config/autoload/dbal_connection.local.php`
and adjust configuration accordingly. Read on for more details.

#### Adapter Configuration

Tell the event store which adapter to use. To do so rename [config/autoload/event_store.local.php.dist](../config/autoload/event_store.local.php.dist)
to `config/autoload/event_store.local.php` and uncomment the adapter that you have installed in **Step 2**.

##### Doctrine DBAL Adapter

If you uncomment the doctrine dbal adapter it will use the same **dbal connection** as the read model does.
The required `event_stream` table is automatically created by `doctrine migrations` which you have to execute to create
the projection tables too. Please see projection configuration for details.

##### MongoDB Adapter

If you uncomment the mongo db adapter you also need to rename [config/autoload/mongo_client.local.php.dist](../config/autoload/mongo_client.local.php.dist)
to `config/autoload/mongo_client.local.php`.
The MongoDB adapter will use a `\MongoClient` with default connection settings.
But you can adjust the mongo client set up in the config file linked above.

### Projection Configuration
Projections are persisted in SQL tables using Doctrine DBAL. The projections are independent from the event store adapter
so you must set up a RDBMS (we suggest MySql) and adjust the `doctrine.connection.default` configuration
which you can find in the `dbal_connection.local.php.dist` file.

##### Create An Empty Database
Before you can run the migrations you have to make sure that the database `todo` exists. You can of course use another
name for the database but please align the `doctrine.connection.default` configuration accordingly.

##### Run Doctrine Migrations

To create the needed projection tables (and the `event_stream` if the doctrine event store adapter is installed)
you should perform the [migrations](../migrations/) by running `php bin/migrations.php migrations:migrate` from the project root.

*Note: We use a custom migrations script instead of the doctrine version because we're injecting the dbal connection provided by our IoC container.*

### Step 4 - View It

Open a terminal and navigate to the project root. Then start the PHP built-in web server with `php -S 0.0.0.0:8080 -t public`
and open `http://localhost:8080/` in a browser.

*Note: You can also set the environmental variable `PROOPH_ENV` to `development`. That will forward exception messages to the client in case of an error.
When using the built-in web server you can set the variable like so: `PROOPH_ENV=development php -S 0.0.0.0:8080 -t public`*

Commit message:

Added instructions to choose an Event Store adapter when using docker

docs/installation.md, after:

# Installation
proophessor-do offers you three options to install the demo application. We support Vagrant, Docker and have manual 
instructions.

At first, please clone this repository by running `git clone https://github.com/prooph/proophessor-do.git` or download 
it manually from GitHub. If you use a own local web server, put this project to the document root of the local web 
server. Now navigate to the proophessor-do directory.

## Using Docker
First ensure [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/ubuntulinux/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) are installed. It's recommended to use the latest version of Docker and 
Docker Compose. Now install the dependencies and start the containers. Docker will now download all dependencies and 
starts the containers. This may take a while ...

```bash
$ docker run --rm -it --volume $(pwd):/app prooph/composer:7.0 install --no-dev -o --prefer-dist --ignore-platform-reqs
$ docker-compose up -d
```

If you want to run (or write) unit tests you need to install the dev dependencies as well:

```bash
$ docker run --rm -it --volume $(pwd):/app prooph/composer:7.0 install -o --prefer-dist --ignore-platform-reqs
```

### Step 2 - Install event store adapter

prooph offers two database adapters for `prooph/event-store` (at the moment).
Pick the one you want to play with and install it via composer.

#### Doctrine DBAL Adapter
Install:

`docker run --rm -it --volume $(pwd):/app prooph/composer:7.0 require prooph/event-store-doctrine-adapter`

Configure the MySQL setup script with:

```bash
$ docker-compose run --rm php sh bin/setup_mysql.sh
```

#### MongoDB Adapter
Install:

`docker run --rm -it --volume $(pwd):/app prooph/composer:7.0 require prooph/event-store-mongodb-adapter`

Configure the MongoDB setup script with:

```bash
$ docker-compose run --rm php sh bin/setup_mongodb.sh
```

### Step 3 - That's it
Now open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/).

## Using Vagrant
Please install the following software if not already installed:

* [Vagrant >= 1.7.3](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
* [Virtualbox >= 5.0](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
* [Vagrant docker-compose plugin](https://github.com/leighmcculloch/vagrant-docker-compose) (`vagrant plugin install vagrant-docker-compose`)

```bash
$: vagrant up
```

All dependencies will be downloaded. This may take a while ...

Now open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/).

## Do it manually

`git clone https://github.com/prooph/proophessor-do.git` into the document root of a local web server.

### Step 2 - Install event store adapter

prooph offers two database adapters for `prooph/event-store` (at the moment).
Pick the one you want to play with and install it via composer.

#### Doctrine DBAL Adapter

`composer require prooph/event-store-doctrine-adapter`

#### MongoDB Adapter

`composer require prooph/event-store-mongodb-adapter`

### Step 3 - Configure Database

Before you can start you have to configure your database connection.
As this is an example application for a CQRS-driven application we are using two different persistence layers.
One is responsible for persisting the **write model**. This task is taken by prooph/event-store.
And the other one is responsible for persisting the **read model** aka **projections**.

We've prepared a template for you. Just rename the
[config/autoload/dbal_connection.local.php.dist](../config/autoload/dbal_connection.local.php.dist) to `config/autoload/dbal_connection.local.php`
and adjust configuration accordingly. Read on for more details.

#### Adapter Configuration

Tell the event store which adapter to use. To do so rename [config/autoload/event_store.local.php.dist](../config/autoload/event_store.local.php.dist)
to `config/autoload/event_store.local.php` and uncomment the adapter that you have installed in **Step 2**.

##### Doctrine DBAL Adapter

If you uncomment the doctrine dbal adapter it will use the same **dbal connection** as the read model does.
The required `event_stream` table is automatically created by `doctrine migrations` which you have to execute to create
the projection tables too. Please see projection configuration for details.

##### MongoDB Adapter

If you uncomment the mongo db adapter you also need to rename [config/autoload/mongo_client.local.php.dist](../config/autoload/mongo_client.local.php.dist)
to `config/autoload/mongo_client.local.php`.
The MongoDB adapter will use a `\MongoClient` with default connection settings.
But you can adjust the mongo client set up in the config file linked above.

### Projection Configuration
Projections are persisted in SQL tables using Doctrine DBAL. The projections are independent from the event store adapter
so you must set up a RDBMS (we suggest MySql) and adjust the `doctrine.connection.default` configuration
which you can find in the `dbal_connection.local.php.dist` file.

##### Create An Empty Database
Before you can run the migrations you have to make sure that the database `todo` exists. You can of course use another
name for the database but please align the `doctrine.connection.default` configuration accordingly.

##### Run Doctrine Migrations

To create the needed projection tables (and the `event_stream` if the doctrine event store adapter is installed)
you should perform the [migrations](../migrations/) by running `php bin/migrations.php migrations:migrate` from the project root.

*Note: We use a custom migrations script instead of the doctrine version because we're injecting the dbal connection provided by our IoC container.*

### Step 4 - View It

Open a terminal and navigate to the project root. Then start the PHP built-in web server with `php -S 0.0.0.0:8080 -t public`
and open `http://localhost:8080/` in a browser.

*Note: You can also set the environmental variable `PROOPH_ENV` to `development`. That will forward exception messages to the client in case of an error.
When using the built-in web server you can set the variable like so: `PROOPH_ENV=development php -S 0.0.0.0:8080 -t public`*
